You've been talking throughout the retreat about the four thoughts that turn the mind to the Dharma
.
What?
You've been talking about the four thoughts that turn the mind to the Dharma.
Oh yeah I am!
And so, is it when your mind has turned to the Dharma, is that when the change from ordinary being
to noble being is taking place?
Yeah, that will really lead, it will lead to the ordinary being to the noble beings.
Definitely it will lead this.
But when our mind has changed to Dharma, Dharma, what that really actually means.
Because when we are reflecting those four thoughts, the first one, "Priches the Beauty of Thy Life"
and in "Vamana",
it will, this life will become very precious.
Precious, and this situation, everything becomes really precious, everything is really careful.
Life is precious, and it is just also precious, and time is very precious, and gathering and
apprenticeship is very important.
So therefore, our mind becomes more mindfulness, and we won't spoil our time and our situation, so
it becomes more practical.
Practical, and that is also really noble, when we do that, it is noble.
Our life will be more happier, more peaceful, more fulfilment, and less disappointments.
And then samsara, when we reflect of the samsara, in the teaching said, what we see, so that will
understand.
All this samsara is not just, when we have the troubles, when we have the difficulties,
that we are not completely tormented with that, because this is the energy of samsara.
Samsara, I mean samsara, this is one of my, part of my, this way, when I'm here.
And therefore, I'm not going to, too much kind of carry by with that, I'm going to get more courage
, and become strong,
and I'm going to, that I'm not going to pick kind of bodies with this, and really be stronger, and
more courageous,
and you, in the teaching said, you begin to think of the, of the how come out of this, this.
So that is also, you become, then begin to do some practices, a meditation, or good things to do
yourself.
And then, when you think the karma things, when you reflect on the karma, then it will help.
If we really have that thought, our actions, our intention will become more pure, more mindfulness.
We don't kind of like, always many times, be some sort of beings, or we think that, oh, I don't
care,
I don't want, I don't care, if it's good for me, I'm going to do this and that thing.
But even it is good for your time, for those individually, when they do something,
but the consecration is not going to say that, oh, that's okay for you.
Consecration will come strongly to that, according to the teaching.
So therefore, the actions and all the activities will become that more mindfulness, our activities.
So everyone kind of without any mindfulness, we won't believe any kind of unbeneficial activities
too much.
So therefore, when we start doing those things, then that is called turning your mind to the dharma
.
Dharma and dharma, and then you become more kinder, softer, practical.
And then, when you practice it continually, you do that, and then you become noble too, definitely,
and that goes into dharma.
Thank you.